# CAMARA DeviceLocation meeting - 2023-11-07

*November 7th, 2023*

## Attendees

- José Luis Urien (TEF)
- Joachim Dahlgreen (Ericsson)
- Jayant Nagaraj (Shabodi)
- Cetin Alpaycetin (Vodafone)
- Akos Hunyadi (DT)
- Nicholas Venezia (Centillion)
- Fernando Prado Cabrillo (TEF)
- Rafal Artych (DT)
- Ludovic Robert (Orange)
- Jorge Garcia Hospital (TEF)
- Javier Carro Calador (TEF)

Device Location minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Open issues and PRs
* Any other business
  
## Open issues and PRs

### Review Release Candidate v0.2

* Review [location-verification.yaml v0.2 Release Candidate](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/104)
  - The proposed process for a version is to have a version x.y-wip then x.y-rc and then finally released as x.y. This pattern is used in QoD.
  - Doc updated
  - basePath fixed in URL
  - Examples updated
  - Decide what to do with IPV6 pattern
    - José triggered an isue in QoD to discuss IPV6 format and then will align. José suggests to remove pattern if not fully correct (As of now this pattern did nort work for some subnet mask definition)
    - We are waiting for QoD outcome on this point.
    - Joachim suggested to raise an issue in Commonalitiesa we have to align this in every API as this is a generic topic
    - Akos explained that we can merge even as rc because it is valid to still update rc

* Review new README and CHANGELOG
  - [PR #106](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/106)
  - Inspired by model in QoD
  - *Links will work after branch for Release-0.2.0 is created* 
    - Discussion on versinning name and use of wip & rc suffix
      - Location-Verification is in Alpha version
      - Discussion if location-retrieval should be also in Alpha version.
      - Geofencing shouldn't stay in pre-Alpha as there are not open issue (_note that pre-alpha is not a defined state_). Joachim explained that for him if it's wip then we do no code it (which is a fair argument to move geofencing to rc)

* Release content:
  - location-verification v0.2-rc
  - location-retrieval v0.1.0-wip -> Do we keep -wip?
    - We should create also a rc and align with current work for location verification.
    - Decision: should be promoted to v0.1-rc
    - **Ludovic (for Orange) will create a PR**
  - geofencing v0.1.0-wip -> Do we keep -wip?
    - Decision: should be promoted v0.1-rc
    - **Max (for DT) will create a PR**
  - Changelog and Release notes.
    - **José asked the team to take a close look on PR#106 as this is what the external public will see.**

  - Akos suggests to create an issue for tracking and the 3 PR will refer this one.

### New Issues

* security and scopes for the Device Location API [#105](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/105) 
  * --> Probably good to rout to identity & consent management project

### Open discussions

#### Behaviour when requesting too high precision

_Not enough time to discuss_

* [Issue #85](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/85)
  - TEF provided a doc with a proposal and use cases for the implementation of 'Partial' and matchRate

* New comments in Github from Joachim
  * 3 scenarios illustrated
  * [action] Review this comment.

#### Administrative Code Area

* New [Issue #83](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/83), with formal requirements from GSMA Product track
  - New [document uploaded by TEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/files/12856149/AdminCode.Proposal.-.Draft_20230926.docx) with a proposal
* [action] Review this document.

## AOB


<p>

**Next call is on November 21th**
