# CAMARA DeviceLocation meeting - 2023-11-21

*November 21st, 2023*

## Attendees

- José Luis Urien (TEF)
- Javier Carro Calador (TEF)
- Nicholas Venezia (Centillion)
- Ben Thomas (Vodafone)
- Foo Ming Hui (SingTel)
- Cetin Alpaycetin (Vodafone)
- Akos Hunyadi (DT)
- Jorge Garcia Hospital (TEF)
- Ludovic Robert (Orange)
- Fernando Prado Cabrillo (TEF)
- Sébastien Synold (Intersec)
- Rafal Artych (DT)
- Surajj Jaggernath (Vodacom)


Device Location minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Open issues and PRs
* Any other business
  
## Open issues and PRs

### Review Release Candidate v0.2

* Review latest comments in ongoing PRs for APIs, and decide if ready to be merged:
  - [location-verification.yaml v0.2 Release Candidate](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/104)
       - Point about Ipv6 still open in QoD (will be valid for all three APIs)
       - Description comment from Cetin to be considered
  - [location-retrieval.yaml v0.1 Release Candidate](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/114)
      - Error: Status & Code are 'normative' - message are open to modification by implementation
  - [geofencing.yaml v0.1 Release Candidate](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/116)
      - Rafal proposed to align Notification source example list accordingly to the guidelines

We're still in line to release before the end of the year.
    - Resolve pending comments and merge current PRs as -rc
    - Open testing and feedback period for RC versions

    We need also to align with the new working group about release management

        First training Nov 21th
        Rafal, Ludovic and José will attend


* Review latest comments in PR for README and CHANGELOG, and decide if ready to be merged:
  - [Release Notes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/106)
  - *Links will work after branch for Release-0.2.0 is created* 

### Review other Issues and PRs

* [Add Test Definition for location Retrieval #119](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/119/files)
  - Discussed during meeting 
    - To be discussed in Commonalities here: https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/94

      - The team needs to be involved in this work
    - Agreed to use Gherkin must we should have an alignement on the formal aspect

* [Adjust IP Adresses device in device to use single IP adresses](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/117)
  - To be aligned with ongoing discussion and [PR in QoD](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/237)

* [Geofencing API - Add "format: uri" to notificationUrl](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/118)
  - Moved to [commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/93)

* [Geofencing API - Adding capability to manage max number of notification](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/111)
  - Moved to [commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/90)

* [Geofencing API - Semantic error](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/109)
  - Solved & closed

* [security and scopes for the Device Location API](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/105)
  - Discuss during meeting

### Open discussions

#### Behaviour when requesting too high precision

* [Issue #85](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/85)
  - TEF provided a doc with a proposal and use cases for the implementation of 'Partial' and matchRate

* New comments in Github from Joachim
  * 3 scenarios illustrated
  * [action] Review this comment.

**[Decision]** Proposal is to use the formula defined in the Word document by Telefonica Team.
        API documentation will be updated --> Add a document and have a link in each yaml to refer it. Telefonica will craft this document.

#### Administrative Code Area

* New [Issue #83](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/83), with formal requirements from GSMA Product track
  - New [document uploaded by TEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/files/12856149/AdminCode.Proposal.-.Draft_20230926.docx) with a proposal
* [action] Review this document.

    - Question from José if we need to keep this function in a same API or in a distinct one. 
    - This feature is not top priority right now but will be discused next year.

Question about API certification from Ludovic  
    - Location retrieval is a good candidate
    - topic links to the Test definition
      - Let's wait for test definition outcomes and then we will assess use of this asset for certification purpose.

## AOB


<p>

**Next call is on December 5th**
    José will be off - Fernando & Ludovic will host the call.
