# CAMARA DeviceLocation meeting - 2023-05-09

*May 9th, 2023*

## Attendees

* Akos Hunyadi (DT)
* Amit Ahuja (Etisalat)
* Joachim Dahlgren (Ericsson)
* José Luis Urien Pinedo (Telefonica)
* Ludovic Robert (Orange)
* Mohammad Sahid Khan ()
* Prashant Sidana (Etisalat)
* Tarek Abu-Shaban (Etisalat)
* Shyamal Patabendige ()
* Udaka Kappagoda (Axiata Group)

QoD minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Open issues and PRs
* Any other business

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description | Discussion & Action Points |
| ----------- | ----------- | ------------ |
| Alignment with guidelines | [Issue #15](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/15), related to [Issue #12](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/12). We must adapt errors and properties to guidelines<br> - Waiting for new model for `ueId`/`device` to be consolidated in  [QualityOnDemand](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand) WG. Expected for next weeks | - QoD finally [merged changes, renaming `ueId` to `device`](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/main/code/API_definitions/qod-api.yaml)<br> - Wait for agreement on IP description. Still not resolved<br> - **@jlurien will make a PR for this**  |
| Subscription for Location Area | [Issue #18](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/18), [PR #49](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/49)<br> - Some feedback by Orange and Telefónica<br> - Some pending comments: Add DELETE and GET, support for subscription termination due to consent removal (new event?)<br> - New PR proposed to `main` branch by @maxl2287 (DT), as previous one [#27](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/27) was closed | - Good review discussion in [Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/156), May 4th,2023 <br> - Ludovic updated the guidelines accordingly. Now waiting for the merge in Commonalities<br> - **PR once agreed (Ludovic)** |
| Add `maxAge` | [Issue #34](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/34)<br> - Feedback from Telefónica<br> - LastLocationTime makes sense for B2B UB but team agreed that privacy constraint need to be considered <br> - Also proposed as [Issue #42](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/42), so closed as duplicated <br> - Wait for clear requirement to complete model | - New [PR #53](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/53) by @hbujakow (DT)<br> - Same request than the one raised some time ago by Udaka Kappagoda<br> - We need to provide explanation how the parameters needs to work<br> - Documentation integration in OAS will be tracked in another PR<br> - Let's wait to get review for this PR specifically |
| Postal Code Area | [Issue #39](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/39), [PR #47](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/47)<br> - Proposal by TEF to add Postal Codes as new type of area<br> - Discussion on the model, as other code could be used (like INSEE code in France)<br> - Model could accommodate to have several type of code, but our polymorphic model also allow us to be precise.<br> - No additional requirement from Orange on INSEE code used in France<br> - José reminds the business rational for adding postal code. All implementation must support circle area. All other area support is optional | <br> - Alignment on country code terminology (from Akos review) - **@jlurien will update the PR**<br> - Some new comments on both issue and PR by @RogerJL. TEF keeps the PR on hold until better clarification on how to support partial implementations. Issue about the adoption because need support for other Telco. Probably we need to keep only the Circle right now. |
| Provide location | [Issue #40](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/40), [Commonalities Issue #178](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/178)<br> - Also new [Issue #43](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/43) may be related<br> - Proposal by Ericsson, feedback by DT and TEF <br> - The use case is interesting. Get more details from Product teams<br> - We agree that is a specific endpoint - discussion about adding it to the current API or have a separate API. Version management should be taken into account. Raised an issue in Commonalities about "multiple endpoint API" vs "multiple API - Feedback from TEF and DT | - Akos (DT) - ok for this API to have 2 distinct API.<br> - **@Ludovic Ludovic will craft the swagger (not managing the subscription).** |


## AOB

* [Issue #51](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/51). Should we move parts of the schema shared by several projects to a common schema, such as `UeId`/`device`. Do we open an issue in Commonalities?
  - We keep for now but the swagger must still be self-contained
  - For ueId specifically we need always to be sync with other project.
  - Have a common data dictionary will be definitely helpful but CAMARA is not yet at this stage
<p>

* [Issue #52](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/52). Review doc/guidelines about units
  - OK for doc enhancement
  - Need to check if we are using meter or kilometer. **@Jose to open poll**
<p>

* Adopt [decision in Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/164) about keeping API documentation as part of the spec
  - **@José will make it but after subscription is closed (and implemented)**
<p>

## Other questions during meeting

* Question about checking CAMARA API compliance ?
  - There is no formal certification process right now --> nobody will check the code
  - CAMARA is about the interface not the code to provide it --> Implementation has to align on the swagger definition.
  - Example of issue on compliance: how to have a common behavior for MatchRate compute  - there will be interpretation by implementation.
  - Good topic for discussion in Commonalities --> Need an issue.
<p>

* Comment about Partial answer
  - Partial means the location match is no complete - but there will not additional response. This is not related to HTTP code 206.
<p>

* Discussion about event subscription
  - Geofencing probably will be in Check Location
  - But we can imagine other subscription to get directly location (every 30 minutes for example). In this case in will be the Get location API. Right now we do not have requested for this later.
<p>

* Question about authorization
  - Several ways are defined but will be depending on local regulations
  - Will be discussed case per case between consumer and provider
  - This is beyond scope of this team
<p>

* **Next call is on May 23th.**
