# CAMARA DeviceLocation meeting - 2023-07-04

*July 4th, 2023*

## Attendees

* Akos Hunyadi (DT)
* Cetin Alpaycetin (Vodafone)
* Fernando Prado Cabrillo (TEF)
* Joachim Dahlgren (Ericsson)
* Jorge Garcia Hospital (TEF)
* José Luis Urien Pinedo (TEF)
* Ludovic Robert (Orange)
* Ravi Shekhar ()
* Sébastien Synold (Intersec)
* Toshi Wakayama (KDDI)

QoD minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Open issues and PRs
* Any other business

## Open issues and PRs


### Subscription for Location Area 

* [Issue #18](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/18), [PR #49](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/49)
  - PR #49 should be close, new PR to be created
  - **DT will open new PR soon**
 
* [Issue #69](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/69): Proposal for new name
  - Orange preference for `location-verification-subscription`
  - Keep open to get more opinions


### New API to provide raw location

* [Issue #40](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/40), [PR #55](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/55)

* Review PR by @Orange:
  - Switched to meters
  - Added `maxAge` (optional) to request
  - Added `lastLocationTime` (required) to response
  - Documentation will be handled in a second PR for raw location

* Almost ready - Ludovic will integrate José requests this week
* Align Area model with Location verification with allOf


### Add new parameter `maxAge` 

* [Issue #34](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/34), [PR #53](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/53)

* Agreed:
  - `lastLocationTime` in the response mandatory
  - `maxAge` will be optional in the request
  - Add explicit information of maxAge about the fact that its concerns only the last location
  - `maxAge` will be in second with a minimum of 60.

* Comments in [PR #53](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/53). It must be rebased, or close this and new PR
  - ** @DT will discuss with the team how to process (rebase or new PR) **
* Applied to [PR #55](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/55)


### Consolidate documentation into spec

* Adopt [decision in Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/164) about keeping API documentation as part of the spec

* New [PR #71](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/71),
  - **ready to be merged**


### Units for radius
 
* [Issue #60](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/60)
  - Decided to move to meters.
  - Pending new PR -> @TEF will do it, just converting to meters

* Decide on new limits. Now, they are 2km to 200 km
  - Discussion to set minimum to 1 km
  - Privacy needs to be considered if we are too precise.
  - Probably better for now to keep 2 km.
  - Question from Joachim Dahlgren about correlation between precision vs consent required
  - Question from Cetin about the max - Do we really need to set to 200 km explicitly
  - We can remove it probably? 
  - ** AP: Open an Issue to discuss this. **


### Behaviour when requesting too high precision

* [Issue #58](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/58) about what is expected behaviour when requested accuracy is more restrictive that the one that network is able to satisfy. 
  - No new comments
  - From previous meeting: We need to provide a hint that the precision request is (definitely) too fine for API provider, need to check how current system manage when the accuracy is to small - always False?

* To be discussed during meeting.
  - ** @TEF will provide examples about 'Partial' UC **
  - We need to align on the formula to calculate the 'matchRate' for PARTIAL answer


### Align Area to new model for inheritance vs polymorphism

* [Issue #72](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/72)
  - ** @TEF will open new PR **


### Roadmap for Release v0.2

* We have to decide in Commonalities how to communicate roadmap for multiple API project.
* Our roadmap could be: 
  - Release in July featuring 
    - For check location: 
      - ~~Rename location to location-verification (issue 59)~~
      - ~~Align device model (PR 61)~~
      - Add documentation in the OAS ->  PR to be merged
    - For raw location: 
      - Provide v0.1 -> PR to be merged
      - With documentation integrated in the OAS -> Pending PR
  - Release in August / September (depending on holidays):  
    - Adding location subscription/notification for checking location

* From roadmap perspective we are on track for API definition - for the documentation it could be probably delivered in July. 


### Postal Code Area

* [Issue #39](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/39), [PR #47](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/47)

* Proposal by TEF to add Postal Codes as new type of area, lack of support from other partners about the business case

* New request from GSMA to add administrative code (like postal code)
  - How we will manage case where implementation did not provide all location type?, Discovery?, Error?

* **@TEF: add a new issue and close this one.**
 

## AOB

* Add a file for summer presence (Ludovic will do)

<p>

**Next call is on July 18th.**
